Atlantic Tropical Weather Outlook
 
 000
 ABNT20 KNHC 011735
 TWOAT 
 
 Tropical Weather Outlook
 NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
 200 PM EDT Sun Sep 1 2019
 
 For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico:
 
 The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane
 Dorian, located over the Abacos Islands.
 
 A broad area of low pressure centered near the Cabo Verde Islands is
 producing a large area of showers and thunderstorms. This system is
 showing signs of becoming better organized, and environmental
 conditions appear conducive for additional development during the
 next several days. A tropical depression is likely to form by the
 middle of the week while the system moves generally northwestward
 across the eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean. Heavy rainfall is
 possible over portions of the southern Cabo Verde Islands during the
 next day or so, and interests on those islands should monitor the
 progress of this system.
 * Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...60 percent.
 * Formation chance through 5 days...high...70 percent.
 
 Another broad area of low pressure is located over the south-central
 Gulf of Mexico. This disturbance continues to produce widespread
 disorganized showers. Some gradual development of this system is
 possible during the next few days while it moves slowly westward
 across the southern and southwestern Gulf of Mexico toward the coast
 of Mexico.
 * Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent.
 * Formation chance through 5 days...low...30 percent.
 
 A trough of low pressure is located several hundred miles
 south-southeast of Bermuda.  Although the associated shower and
 thunderstorm activity is showing some signs of organization, the
 system does not currently have a closed surface circulation. Some
 gradual development of this disturbance is possible during the next
 few days while it moves slowly northward or north-northwestward.
 * Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.
 * Formation chance through 5 days...low...30 percent.
 
 $$
 Forecaster Zelinsky
 
