Atlantic Hurricane Dorian Intermediate Advisory Number 33A 
 
 000
 WTNT35 KNHC 011746
 TCPAT5
 
 BULLETIN
 Hurricane Dorian Intermediate Advisory Number 33A
 NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL052019
 200 PM EDT Sun Sep 01 2019
 
 ...EYE OF CATASTROPHIC HURRICANE DORIAN OVER THE ABACOS ISLANDS IN
 THE BAHAMAS...
 ...HEADING WITH ALL ITS FURY TOWARD GRAND BAHAMA...
 
 
 SUMMARY OF 200 PM EDT...1800 UTC...INFORMATION
 ----------------------------------------------
 LOCATION...26.5N 77.1W
 ABOUT 0 MI...0 KM OVER GREAT ABACO ISLAND
 ABOUT 185 MI...295 KM E OF WEST PALM BEACH FLORIDA
 MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...185 MPH...295 KM/H
 PRESENT MOVEMENT...W OR 270 DEGREES AT 7 MPH...11 KM/H
 MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...911 MB...26.90 INCHES
 
 
 WATCHES AND WARNINGS
 --------------------
 CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
 None.
 
 SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
 A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
 * North of Deerfield Beach to the Volusia/Brevard County Line
 
 A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
 * Northwestern Bahamas excluding Andros Island
 
 A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
 * Andros Island
 * North of Deerfield Beach to the Volusia/Brevard County Line
 
 A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
 * North of Deerfield Beach to Sebastian Inlet
 
 A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
 * North of Golden Beach to Deerfield Beach
 * Lake Okeechobee
 
 A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
 threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
 coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
 For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
 Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
 hurricanes.gov.
 
 A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
 somewhere within the warning area. Preparations to protect life and
 property should be rushed to completion.
 
 A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
 within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
 before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
 winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
 dangerous.
 
 A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
 expected within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
 A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
 possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
 Interests elsewhere along the east coast of Florida should continue
 to monitor the progress of Dorian, as additional watches or
 warnings may be required later today.
 
 For storm information specific to your area in the United States,
 including possible inland watches and warnings, please monitor
 products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
 office. For storm information specific to your area outside of the
 United States, please monitor products issued by your national
 meteorological service.
 
 
 DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
 ----------------------
 At 200 PM EDT (1800 UTC), the extremely distinct eye of Hurricane
 Dorian was located near latitude 26.5 North, longitude 77.1 West.
 Dorian is moving toward the west near 7 mph (11 km/h). A slower
 westward motion should continue for the next day or two, followed by
 a gradual turn toward the northwest.  On this track, the core of
 extremely dangerous Hurricane Dorian will continue to pound Great
 Abaco today and the move near or over Grand Bahama Island tonight
 and Monday. The hurricane should move closer to the Florida east
 coast late Monday through Tuesday night.
 
 Maximum sustained winds are near 185 mph (295 km/h) with higher
 gusts.  Dorian is a extremely dangerous category 5 hurricane on the
 Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale.  Some fluctuations in intensity
 are likely, and Dorian is expected to remain a catastrophic
 hurricane during the next few days.
 
 Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 45 miles (75 km) from the
 center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 140
 miles (220 km).
 
 The minimum central pressure measured by both NOAA and Air Force
 reconnaissance plane was 911 mb (26.90 inches).
 
 
 HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
 ----------------------
 WIND:  Catastrophic hurricane conditions are occurring in the Abacos
 Islands and will spread across Grand Bahama Island later today and
 tonight. Do not venture out into the eye, as winds will suddenly
 increase as the eye passes.
 
 Hurricane conditions are possible within the hurricane watch area in
 Florida by late Monday or early Tuesday.
 
 Tropical storm conditions are expected within the tropical storm
 warning area on Monday and Tuesday.
 
 Tropical storm conditions are possible within the tropical storm
 watch area by Monday night.
 
 STORM SURGE:  A life-threatening storm surge will raise water levels
 by as much as 18 to 23 feet above normal tide levels in areas of
 onshore winds on the Abaco Islands and Grand Bahama Island.  Near
 the coast, the surge will be accompanied by large and destructive
 waves.
 
 The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the tide will cause
 normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters
 moving inland from the shoreline. The water could reach the
 following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
 areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
 Volusia/Brevard County Line to Jupiter Inlet FL...4 to 7 ft
 North of Deerfield Beach to Jupiter Inlet FL...2 to 4 ft
 
 The surge will be accompanied by large and destructive waves.
 Surge-related flooding depends on the how close the center of
 Dorian comes to the Florida east coast, and can vary greatly over
 short distances.  For information specific to your area, please see
 products issued by your local National Weather Service forecast
 office.
 
 RAINFALL:  Dorian is expected to produce the following rainfall
 totals through late this week:
 
 Northwestern Bahamas...12 to 24 inches, isolated 30 inches.
 Coastal Carolinas...5 to 10 inches, isolated 15 inches.
 Central Bahamas and the Atlantic Coast from the Florida peninsula
 through Georgia...2 to 4 inches, isolated 6 inches.
 
 This rainfall may cause life-threatening flash floods.
 
 SURF:  Large swells are already affecting east-facing shores of the
 Bahamas, the Florida east coast, and will spread northward along the
 southeastern United States coast during the next few days.  These
 swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current
 conditions.  Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
 
 NEXT ADVISORY
 -------------
 Next complete advisory at 500 PM EDT.
 
 Hourly Tropical Cyclone Update statements will begin at 300 PM EDT.
 
 $$
 Forecaster Avila
 
 
